So, now let's go on to
making our diamonds.
So I'm gonna set up a media query, and
we're gonna say our
min-width is 324 pixels.
And now, I can just read
re-declare all of the variables
that I declared earlier and
just change their values.
So I'm gonna put in my diamond-container.
My square variable,
I'm going to set to 150 pixels.
My square gap to three pixels,
and my max width to 325 pixels.
Okay, so you notice that all
of those variable changes
had an immediate impact on my design.
And that's because this is one of
the wonderful things about CSS variables,
you can re-declare them per media query.
That is actually something you can't do
with SAS variables, if you're wondering
about one of the big differences between
SAS variables and CSS variables.
SAS variables do not change
between media queries,
whereas CSS variables are very
flexible and can do that.
So now that we've got that in place,
let's turn off our
image rotation and
we can say diamonds li:nth-child.
And you could do this with just
n by itself in other words for
all of them, transform, rotate 0degrees.
So we've turned off that
little bit of rotation there.
And then we're ready to change
the way all of our images look.
Right now they are set up to be square,
we want to turn them into diamonds and
we're gonna do that with
the clip path property.
So .diamonds li.
We'll set this up with clip-path
which is gonna trim these up for
us and we're gonna call it a polygon.
And we're gonna
say 50% 0,
100% 50%,
50% 100%,
and 0% 50%.
So that changes all of our images into
a diamond by using this clip path.
Obviously, I just did this with squares,
you could do this width and
turn your images into
any other kind of shape.
There's all kinds of
possibilities with clip path.
If you Google for it, you'll find other
various recipes for this kind of thing.
The next thing to do
is to turn on Flexbox.
So right now, these are just stacked
on top of each other just as any other
unordered list would be.
So let's turn this into Flexbox and
start setting these up for an alignment.
And we'll do that by selecting
our parent which is diamonds.
And we're gonna say display flex.
Which immediately puts them all
together just like that, kinda awesome.
And then flex-flow: row wrap.
We do want them to wrap onto other rows.
Justify-content: center,
and our gap will be var(--sq-gap).
So not a lot of change there because
we have our images are of a size,
our max width is of a size,
they haven't showed up next to each other.
So they're wrapping onto
other rows at the moment.
So we need to encourage these
diamonds to overlap a little bit.
So let's put in .diamonds li and
we're gonna play around
with some margin here.
So we'll say our margin on the left
will be calc(-0.5 times
our square variable).
So basically half of our square value and
remember our square value was 150 pixels.
So half of that would be 75 pixels,
we do it here with math because
this now becomes flexible as we
change the value of sq, square,
across our media queries,
then that logic will carry through.
We just have to change its value.
And we can also say our margin on
the bottom is 0 because earlier we
had some margin on the bottom
with our previous layouts.
So there we go, if you like that layout,
you can totally keep it.
I mean, that's kind of fun
looking too just like that.
So, just by changing your clip path on
these images, changing with overlapping
images, you wind up making some very
interesting art for your websites.
But now what I wanna do,
if you think about it,
if we look at our diamonds here,
we can kind of think of these as rows.
So these top three images here in
our layout, that is kind of a row.
The next three images here,
kind of a row, and in our current layout,
we have our three images here,
just like this.
What I wanna do now is take
this second image, right?
This one in the middle,
and I wanna pull it up.
The other two go down, and
that will form our layout.
So this is the coolest part of the whole
thing because we can in fact do this.
So what I wanna do is,
.diamonds li:nth-child and
what I wanna do is I
wanna pick every third
diamond starting with the second one.
So the math for that looks like (3n + 2)
always looks like algebra but it's not.
And then we're going to say our
margin on the the top will be calc
(-0.5 * var square variable) and
then we're gonna subtract.
So there we go, see how we
pulled that on up really nicely,
might take that out again.
See how that diamond gets pulled
up really, really nicely there?
Awesome.
Then from that we'll subtract.
0.5 times var square gap.
Because when we pull it up that way,
it looked great,
but the gap was a little bit inconsistent.
We need half the gap in addition to
half the width of these diamonds.
So there it is,
we've pulled that on up and
we wind up with that awesome layout there.
Notice that our last diamond
is kinda hanging out in space,
what's going on there?
Well, remember that we don't have the
other diamonds that are there with it, and
so, that last diamond that you see
there with the two women on it,
it's effectively at the first
one of the next row.
But it happens to be
displaying in the middle,
because it's the only one in that row.
So we may have to do a separate
treatment for that specific item.
Let's bring our diamonds back onto
the page again because, of course,
now they're hanging out
of their box up there.
We wanna push it all
back down into the page.
So to my diamonds style here,
I'm going to add some padding on the left.
And we can say, once again,
calc(0.5 times var variable sq).
So half that distance, that'll push them
nicely there in the box and then boom,
everything broke because sometimes
that happens along the way here.
And then we wanna push
it down from the top,
so padding-top calc(0.5) times var sq.
So now we've pushed everything back down
in the box, it's centered there very,
very nicely.
Okay, so now let's deal with
that last diamond down there
in the bottom that's hanging out in space.
And we can select that one,
it is our 10th diamond,
so .diamonds li:nth-child(10)
that specific one.
We want the margin on the top
to calc(-0.5 times var sq).
Minus (0.5 times
var sq-gap).
There we go.
So that'll pull that last
diamond on up into place, and
we wind up with this awesome layout.
It has a consistent gap throughout
because we had to take that into account,
Flexbox, of course,
is running in horizontal.
Absolutely parallel for all of these.
When we turn things like this and
we put a little bit of an angle to stuff,
we have to do a little bit of extra work
to make sure that our gap is even and
to make sure that our diamonds show
up correctly in the right spots.
So that is how we go about setting
up that initial diamond layout.
Now, that's pretty much
all of our heavy lifting.
So now all we have to do is change
the values of our variables as we go,
because all of the logic is contained
here in this initial media query here,
for our min-width of 324 pixels.
So now you can add as many additional
media queries as you want and
just change the value of
those initial values.
So I'm going to say at media,
min-width 440 pixels,
let's say our diamond container.
Sq is now 200 pixels.
Notice that that breaks here, don't panic.
Sq-gap is 4 pixels and
our max width will be 440 pixels.
So see how that reformed once I
had all those variables typed in?
If we make it smaller,
then it will go to our smaller format.
And when we make it even smaller, it'll
go back to our series of kind of polaroid
kind of treatment here that we
have here on the page, all right?
And we can continue to add media queries,
I'm just gonna copy this
whole media query here.
Paste it in and
we could say something like 800 pixels.
So at least 800 pixels,
we want to have values of 250.
A gap of six, and a max width of 550.
So now when I make the page even bigger,
then we come up with a really
large diamond layout here.
Then we go to our medium, sort of our
medium size, or smaller size, and
the final layout there.
Okay, so this is really super fun stuff
that we have going on here, right?
The concept of being able to
take a bunch of images and
lay them out in this diamond layout
like this is totally awesome.
And I hope this is something
that sparked some ideas for you.
Maybe experimenting with other clip paths,
maybe thinking about using nth-child and
its various permutations.
How could you move things around on the
page in order to make them line up exactly
the way that you want?
And we could wind up with image galleries
that are more interesting than just tiled
images over and over again.
We could wind up with more
interesting art like this.